In this video I'm going to demonstrate the tips and tricks I've shared with you.
First, I'll show you how I use my "Project Working Doc" when collaborating with SMEs (Subject Matter Experts) to build a Rise course.
I use the heading functionality in Google docs to correspond to the blocks of content in my Rise course.
In my doc, I have a single Heading 1 topic corresponding to the title of my Project Working Doc.
Everything else is a Heading 2 or less.
The reason why I have a singular Heading 1 in my Google docs is to meet accessibility requirements.
Screen readers require one and only one Heading 1 element in any DOM or Document Object Model structure to work properly.
For this project, I was collaborating with SMEs that use screen readers. Practice tip: It's important for any job aids that you create using Google
docs that you have exactly one Heading 1 element in your document to make your job aid accessible.
In my doc, I include a number of links for quick references, including a link to the corresponding
Review 360 link for the course. And, I add the published details and Workday Learning link when the project is completed for future reference.
Most of my courses start with a Course Overview lesson. This is denoted with a Heading 2 style in my Project Working Doc to make it easy to read
and provide accessible navigation. When I work with SMEs, I encourage them to make edits using the suggestions or comment feature of Google docs.
For example, if the SME wanted to delete this content - the SME would change the mode from Editing to Suggesting,
delete the content, and optionally add a comment about their change for me.
As I make the change in the Rise content, I accept the suggestions in Google docs and the content stays aligned between Rise and my project.
working doc.
Now I'll show you how the content and the Project Working Doc matches content in a completed Rise course.
First let's find my accessibility for PMs (Product Managers) course. I have a lot of different folders in my Rise account to organize my projects.
Rise automatically keeps your content and the All Courses folder sorted by recent update date as the default, or you can sort by course name.
Since I have so many projects, I find this difficult and cumbersome.
Practice Tip: Use Rise folders to organize your content.
I use a zero 0GN Drafts - In Progress folder to store my currently active projects.
The zero makes it appear first in the list of the project folders. The Accessibility for PM's project is already completed,
so I have moved it into my Dev Ed - Primary Source Files folder. Since everything is sorted by date and it's the last project I published,
it'll be at the top of this folder. Okay, so let's review the content and the Rise course for this project.
My courses typically have a large - what I call a Catalog Overview page. This information is copied into Workday Learning by our learning administrators
before publication. Here you see my first Rise lesson called Course Overview.
The simple content in this lesson matches the content in my Project Working Doc. As you can see, the Text Blocks and a Quote Block in Rise correspond
to the labeled content in my doc.
I state the learning objectives using a Numbered List.
Rise Checkbox Lists are NOT accessible - so avoid using them. Now let's look at a more complicated lesson.
The Applying the Definition of Done lesson has a lot of content in it organized by Best Practice Tips.
This content is built with paragraphs heading, a video, a labeled graphic
and more.
Specifically, let's look at the content called "A cautionary tale" that was built using a Labeled Graphic Block and a custom SVG graphic
from Google slides.
It starts with some paragraph content. Then the Annotated image Labeled Graphic Block has instructions and the image
name with alt text.
It's important to make your labeled graphics accessible for all users. Rise uses the HTML label "markers" to describe the annotation
label interactions in the DOM. So be sure to use the word markers in your instructions to help users using screen readers
navigate your labeled graphic. Additionally add a number image to each marker and/or make the text on the annotation correspond
to the image item it's labeling. In my project doc I've used headings to distinguish between the different markers and content.
So for example the marker "I" Spoiler Alert heading in my doc corresponds to the label with the "i" icon in Rise.
The other markers have number icons added to help with accessibility navigation on the graphic. As the SMEs and I collaborated on this image,
we use the comment and suggestions feature to make many changes. In fact, the image you see here is not the original image
we started with!
Reviewing the comment feature of the Google doc you can view the history of when and why those changes were made.
For custom images used in this course and in others, I use Google slides.
For each project, I create a Google slide deck reusing Workday Brand Template slides whenever possible.
Here you can see the Google slide I used to create the labeled graphic image used in Rise.
I made sure to leave extra spaces on my buttons to have a nice background contrast color for the marker annotations. To add the image to Rise,
select your slide. Then select File > Download SVG option to have a clear scalable image to view for any device.
The file will automatically be named with your slide deck title. This is obnoxious as I continually have to rename the image to be something meaningful.
When you rename your image, be sure to keep the required alt text accessibility naming requirements in mind.
So for example, this image might be named "worker with tangled wires on a computer". Generally I do not open my SVG file and I recommend
that you don't open it either unless you have Adobe Illustrator.
Upload the SVG into your Rise Labeled Graphic Block directly from your Downloads folder.
Since most SMEs do not have Adobe Illustrator, I typically also download a PNG version of the image to share in docs, Slack or other
ways as needed for feedback.
Here's an example of an image used by modifying a Workday Brand Template slide to illustrate personas and another custom image created by the SMEs
about contrast ratios. When I have videos In my course, I always create the script for the video and a separate Google doc.
I collaborate with the SMEs to make sure the wording is just right and add a link to the video script in my Project Working Doc. I use the comments
to remind myself to create the VTT files for closed captions and upload them to Rise before publication.
The video script doc is super helpful when proofreading the VTT files for spellings, punctuation and capitalizations.
Most courses I create have a Knowledge Check required for completion credit. I use Google docs to organize,
edit, and maintain the questions. Specifically, I use Google doc headings and a table of contents to have easy links to edit the various parts of
my questions. When you are adding Knowledge Check questions in Rise, you enter them in a certain order. This authored order is how I number and label the questions
in my doc. Typically I use the Unlimited Quiz, Randomize Question Order, and Shuffle Answer Choice settings for the learners
in Rise for Knowledge Check lessons. This presents a challenge when trying to track user feedback after publication about questions that may have errors or need to
be modified. The numbering helps me and others keep track of what the content is. Something I learned while creating the accessibility for PM's course
is only the Rise Knowledge Check multiple choice question type is accessible.
Previously I had used matching and check all that apply multiple response questions in my Knowledge Checks for other courses.
To make accessible versions of these types of questions for the course, I wrote all the questions as multiple choice types with a few creative twists.
For example in Question 1 - Workday Success. It's a true simple true or false question.
The answer choice of green indicates what is correct in my project doc and the feedback matches what you see in the Rise feedback option.
Question 2 -  Accessibility Requirements I would typically have written as a multiple response check all that apply type of question.
To make the question accessible, I list many true choices and write the instructions of the question to ask which of the following is NOT considered a
requirement. I have found having a Knowledge Check doc is really helpful when asking others to quickly test your course and for maintenance going forward.
Here's an example of a course template I have shared with my PTLE team. I typically denote everything in red and use TBD to denote content
I need to change.
Here you can see how the Catalog Overview template was used in the Accessibility for PMs course. The red/TBD content has been updated for our learning
admins to use when publishing the course to Workday Learning.
In the template itself, there are sample lessons. First, there is a Sample Course Overview lesson with the template.
It's a sample example with a quote and a placeholder. Here you can see how that template was used in my Rise course.
I have two different types of content lesson samples. The first one is a general content sample with actual content in it
about Workday. It's all about the customer journey and tenants - something everyone at Workday should know.
It illustrates the flow of content, including a video and accordion interactions as a sample to edit with your own content.
There's a sample exercise lesson. This is a format I use for instruction content for developers.
You can see there are a few sample course summary options. And, some internal reference material that contains links to common documents our team uses
including the QA content checklist, accessibility requirements and sample process guidelines. To add Shared Block Template content
within a new lesson, select All Blocks >  Block Templates and then you search. I have created and shared a number of black templates
with the S. B. T underscore (SBT_) prefix.
For example, you may want to add the link to the Workday architecture map to your course.
Another block template is the SBT_Sample Labeled Graphic Dev Tips - which is very similar to the interaction
I used to build this tips and tricks course for you.
I hope you found this demo helpful. Best wishes to you and I hope you share your tips and tricks with the learning community,
too. Thanks for watching!